Sprite Kit can detect the contact between two physics bodies. However, for this to work properly, you need to follow a few steps to set things up a certain way. Here’s a short overview. Each of the steps will be explained in more detail later. So, here you go:

1. Set up physics body bit masks: In your game you might have several different types of physics bodies – for example, you can have the player, enemies, bullets, bonus items etc. To uniquely identify these different types of physics bodies, each physics body can be configured using several bit masks. These include:
    -       categoryBitMask: This bit mask identifies the category a body belongs to. You use categories to define a body’s interaction with other bodies. The categoryBitMask is a 32-bit integer, where each bit represents one category. So you can have up to 32 custom categories in your game. This should be enough for most games to set up a separate category for each object type. For more complex games it can be useful to remember that each body can be in several categories. So through smart design of the categories you could even overcome the limitation of 32 categories.
    -       contactTestBitMask: Setting a bit in this bitmask causes Sprite Kit to notify the contact delegate when the body touches another body assigned to that particular category. By default, all bits are cleared – you are not notified about any contacts between objects. For best performance you should only set bits in the contacts mask for interactions you are really interested in.
    -        collisionBitMask: Here, you can define which bodies can collide with this physics body. You can use this, for example, to avoid collision calculations for a very heavy body when it collides with a much lighter body as this would only make negligible changes to the heavy body’s velocity. But you can also use it to allow two bodies to pass right through each other.
   
2. Set and implement the contact delegate: The contact delegate is a property of SKPhysicsWorld. It will be notified when two bodies with the proper contactTestBitMasks begin and end colliding.
